While Laurie and Amy were taking conjugal1 strolls over velvet2 carpets, as they set their house in order, 
and planned a blissful future, Mr. Bhaer and Jo were enjoying promenades5 of a different sort, along muddy
roads and sodden6 fields.
 
"I always do take a walk toward evening, and I don't know why I should give it up, just because I happen
to meet the Professor on his way out," said Jo to herself, after two or three encounters, for though
there were two paths to Meg's whichever one she took she was sure to meet him, either going or returning.
He was always walking rapidly, and never seemed to see her until quite close, when he would look as 
if his short-sighted eyes had failed to recognize the approaching lady till that moment. Then, if she
was going to Meg's he always had something for the babies. If her face was turned homeward, he had
merely strolled down to see the river, and was just returning, unless they were tired of his frequent
calls.
 
Under the circumstances, what could Jo do but greet him civilly, and invite him in? If she was tired of
his visits, she concealed7 her weariness with perfect skill, and took care that there should be coffee 
for supper, "as Friedrich - I mean Mr. Bhaer - doesn't like tea."
 
By the second week, everyone knew perfectly8 well what was going on, yet everyone tried to look as if 
they were stone-blind to the changes in Jo's face. They never asked why she sang about her work, did up
her hair three times a day, and got so blooming with her evening exercise. And no one seemed to have the 
slightest suspicion that Professor Bhaer, while talking philosophy with the father, was giving the daughter
lessons in love.

Jo couldn't even lose her heart in a decorous manner, but sternly tried to quench9 her feelings, and failing 
to do so, led a somewhat agitated10 life. She was mortally afraid of being laughed at for surrendering, after 
her many and vehement11 declarations of independence. Laurie was her especial dread12, but thanks to the
new manager, he behaved with praiseworthy propriety14, never called Mr. Bhaer 'a capital old fellow' in
public, never alluded15, in the remotest manner, to Jo's improved appearance, or expressed the least surprise 
at seeing the Professor's hat on the Marches' table nearly every evening. But he exulted16 in private and longed 
for the time to come when he could give Jo a piece of plate, with a bear and a ragged17 staff on it as an 
appropriate coat of arms.
 
For a fortnight, the Professor came and went with lover-like regularity18. Then he stayed away for three whole 
days, and made no sign, a proceeding19 which caused everybody to look sober, and Jo to become pensive21, at
 first, and then - alas22 for romance - very cross.
 
"Disgusted, I dare say, and gone home as suddenly as he came. It's nothing to me, of course, but I should think
he would have come and bid us goodbye like a gentleman," she said to herself, with a despairing look at the gate, 
as she put on her things for the customary walk one dull afternoon.
 
"You'd better take the little umbrella, dear. It looks like rain," said her mother, observing that she had on 
her new bonnet23, but not alluding24 to the fact.
 
"Yes, Marmee, do you want anything in town? I've got to run in and get some paper," returned Jo, pulling out 
the bow under her chin before the glass as an excuse for not looking at her mother.
 
"Yes, I want some twilled silesia, a paper of number nine needles, and two yards of narrow lavender ribbon. 
Have you got your thick boots on, and something warm under your cloak?"
 
"I believe so," answered Jo absently.
 
"If you happen to meet Mr. Bhaer, bring him home to tea. I quite long to see the dear man," added Mrs. March.
 
Jo heard that, but made no answer, except to kiss her mother, and walk rapidly away, thinking with a glow of 
gratitude25, in spite of her heartache, "How good she is to me! What do girls do who haven't any mothers to 
help them through their troubles?"
 
The dry-goods stores were not down among the counting-houses, banks, and wholesale26 warerooms, where gentlemen 
most do congregate27, but Jo found herself in that part of the city before she did a single errand, loitering 
along as if waiting for someone, examining engineering instruments in one window and samples of wool in 
another, with most unfeminine interest, tumbling over barrels, being half-smothered by descending28 bales, and 
hustled29 unceremoniously by busy men who looked as if they wondered 'how the deuce she got there'. A drop of 
rain on her cheek recalled her thoughts from baffled hopes to ruined ribbons. For the drops continued to fall, 
and being a woman as well as a lover, she felt that, though it was too late to save her heart, she might her 
bonnet. Now she remembered the little umbrella, which she had forgotten to take in her hurry to be off, but 
regret was unavailing, and nothing could be done but borrow one or submit to a drenching30. She looked up at 
the lowering sky, down at the crimson31 bow already flecked with black, forward along the muddy street, then 
one long, lingering look behind, at a certain grimy warehouse32, with 'Hoffmann, Swartz, & Co.' over the door, 
and said to herself, with a sternly reproachful air . . .
 
"It serves me right! what business had I to put on all my best things and come philandering33 down here, hoping 
to see the Professor? Jo, I'm ashamed of you! No, you shall not go there to borrow an umbrella, or find out 
where he is, from his friends. You shall trudge34 away, and do your errands in the rain, and if you catch your 
death and ruin your bonnet, it's no more than you deserve. Now then!"
 
With that she rushed across the street so impetuously that she narrowly escaped annihilation from a passing 
truck, and precipitated35 herself into the arms of a stately old gentleman, who said, "I beg pardon, ma'am," 
and looked mortally offended. Somewhat daunted36, Jo righted herself, spread her handkerchief over the devoted37 
ribbons, and putting temptation behind her, hurried on, with increasing dampness about the ankles, and much 
clashing of umbrellas overhead. The fact that a somewhat dilapidated blue one remained stationary38 above the 
unprotected bonnet attracted her attention, and looking up, she saw Mr. Bhaer looking down.
 
"I feel to know the strong-minded lady who goes so bravely under many horse noses, and so fast through much 
mud. What do you down here, my friend ?"
 
"I'm shopping."